Hello and welcome.
In this lecture I'd like to provide a solution to our previous challenge which implemented a decorator
design pattern with the scenario of a shape.
So let's bring up and tell J.
A NAME THIS PROJECT decorator solution will be available for download if you want to compare it to your
solution.
Then LIKE THAT FIRST THING WE'RE GONNA DO IS WE'RE GONNA CREATE OUR component.
We're gonna say new Java class the component is gonna be our interface for our shape.
So we'll see say shape making an interface.
And this is gonna have one method.
This is gonna have the draw method
and then we have to create concrete components off of the shape the concrete components gonna be a rectangle
in a circle.
So here will say class rectangle implements shape and we're gonna override
the draw method.
And this is just gonna print out a message saying Shape Rectangle.
This is the original functionality of the class that we want to add additional functionality using our
decorator something like Shape Rectangle.
Pretty straightforward a very small simple class.
These are our gain our concrete components.
So we'll do the same for our circle.
And what this is basically saying is when you draw a rectangle circle all it does is just as a basic
draw.
It doesn't do anything fancy.
So this is gonna be a circle and we're gonna display as the type of shape which is circle shape.
Our next step is to create the abstract decorator.
So here we're gonna create a new abstract class called Shape decorator shape decorator.
This is gonna be abstract.
It's going to implement the shape the component.
So it's gonna implement shape
and it needs to have a reference to a decorated shape needs I have reference to the component.
So we're gonna say protected shapes we only want the subclasses to have this decorated shape our constructor
will say public.
Instead of having a separate method because we don't want any one of to directly side it.
So we'll say shape decorated shape and then we'll just say this decorative shape equals decorated sheet.
And then this Draw method is just going to call the components Draw method.
So decorated shape that draw
and that's our abstract decorator.
Need to create a couple concrete decorators.
I'm just gonna change the color of the shape so I might create a red shape decorator something like
this.
Class red.
Shape
decorator extends our shape decorator.
Abstract decorator.
This is gonna have a constructor that just calls the base constructor so that we can set up our reference
or has a relationship.
It's gonna override the draw method to add additional functionality by setting a border
so in our draw method we're gonna say decorative shape that draw.
And we're gonna call a helper method called set red border which will just display some output.
So our set red border is gonna do something like that.
So that's our decorator we can add red borders to multiple shapes.
Now we'll create our client it's gonna use the decorator say client and this needs to have a main method.
This is gonna create a new shape.
And it's also gonna use the decorator add functionality to that shape.
So the first thing we're gonna do is create a new circle and then we're going to carry a red circle
decorator and call the actual draw methods.
We'll also create a rod rake rectangle while we're at it.
So we have a red circle.
We have a red rectangle.
They both use the decorator passing in either a circle or a rectangle.
We're then going to display some information and call the circle draw method.
So this is not going to use a decorator.
It's just gonna do the normal behavior for Circle.
We're then going to add the red borders to both the rectangle and the circle by using the decorator.
And then we're gonna just do something like this.
And that will demonstrate the use of the decorator.
So let's try to compile
and run this application
and you'll notice that it uses a decorator for additional functionality that is a circle.
Normal border.
And then it has a circle with the red border and also a rectangle of red border.
You'll notice that for the rectangle we didn't actually call the draw method on a rectangle.
So we don't have a rectangle.
We just passed in a new rectangle and actually we don't need to.
Oh yeah.
Because we want to call circle dot draw because the circle we created the original circle just to show
that it has normal behavior.
So this is a decorator design pattern in nutshell.
If you have any questions please ask the Q and A.
Otherwise onto the next design pattern.
Thank you.